# Fractal Music Generator
The purpose of this project was to create a fractal algorithm that generates musical scores to be read by a program called
Max/MSP. This is a visually configurable tool that can perform complex sound signal processing. The 'scores' generated by
my Python scripts followed the 'collection' format, a file format compatible with Max/MSP.

*Note:* As this was a personal project, I did not create any concrete test files, though I did comment my code thoroughly.
As is such, this is not a complete representation of my professional work ethic.

### Aproach
I decided to create an abstract fractal algorithm that I could apply to most any musical trait. Of these traits, I applied my 
algorithm to `frequency`, `duration`, `rhythm`, and `Frequency Modulation ratios (FM)` (a form of distortion). There are 
certainly more traits than those listed above; however, those are the traits I was able to implement given the one month time
constraint I had to produce fractally generated music.

Additionally, I wanted the ability to generate a fractal pattern simply from a `string` or line of text. Therefore,
my main function in my Python scripts parses a `string` and converts it into a fractal object. Once complete, that
fractal can then be applied to any musical trait (that has been implemented).

### Tech Stack
This project used Python to generate the scores, PyCharm as the IDE to edit and test these scripts, and Max/MSP to interpret
and produce tones from these scores. JSON files were used as inputs to the Python scripts to generate the same scores
consistently.

### Collection File Format
The format of collections in text files is as follows
```
1 "my_value"
2 "second_value_in_collection"
3 45
4 "the 3rd value was an integer!"
5 6.8
```
This is a file format compatible with Max/MSP

# The Music
Some of the results of this program ended up being rather interesting, though a few of them benefitted from personal editing.
A select few of these musical sequences can be heard here: https://soundcloud.com/jacques_mathieu/sets/fractal-music

### Contact
If you have any questions about this project or would like to see the Max/MSP patch used for this project, feel free to 
email me at: mathieu.j@husky.neu.edu
You may also visit my website at: https://tinyurl.com/y9d24cat
